---
layout: post
title: This is a new article
category: Category
author: Scott Turnbull
image: /assets/img/OR_Screenshot-870x570.jpg
description: Description of the article
---

# Prompt Notes 
Write a post about simple changes that can be made to the DnD adventure Phandelver and Below, Beyond the Shattered Oblisk.  This first part of a multi part blog series will focus on the first half of the adventure, which is Lost Mines of Phandelver (LMoP).  Lost Mines of Phandelver was the very first, and arguably best, DnD module published for 5th edition as part of the OG Starter Set for 5th edition, published in 2014.

LMoP was republished in the recent DnD module as teh first half of the adventure Phandelver and Below: The Shattered Obelisk, with very few changes.

 For part one of this series, I want to focus on some easy changes I would recommend to LMoP that will make it easier to run, more fun for the players, and add more meat for the DM.  What I'm going to focus on here are SIMPLE changes, and tweaks that can really breath live in to the game.

1.  Start things in Neverwinter, with a meeting with Gundren.  One of the largest gaps in the module is the players spend the entire LMoP campaign looking for and rescuing Gundren Rockseeker.  The problem is that the players have never meet Gundren, have no ties to him, and no real motivation for looking for or saving him.  This is what I call "the original sin" of the module.   So craft a short encounter, where the players have already been hired by Gundren to help him find a Lost Mine that used to belong to his family.  Play Gundren as a bit of a lost soul, jumping from one get rich scheme to another.  Ask the players to come up with a reason why they agreed to work with him.  Doing this buils some connection between the players and the main driver for the adventure.  DMs may even want to consider filling in some backstory of how Gundren found the information, perhaps a final piece of a puzzel brought back from some adventurers who sold an old book they found in an unrelated dungeon, detailing the location of the mine.  You could even run an encounter or two in Neverwinter as someone is clearly trying to steal whatever it was Gundren found.  Have Gundren flee the city, under pressure and someone from Clan Rockseeker hires the party to go after him and keep him from getting into trouble.

2.  Give some better backstory to the Craigmaw Hideout.  This is the second big narrative gap in the adventure.  The adventure doesn't want you to be able to find Cragmaw Castle so they create these artifical barriers. The first is the group at Craigmaw Hideout who, for some unknown reason, don't know where the other half of their clan is or where it was they sent Gundren after capturing him.  This is a bit of a problem for DMs because it's contrived and a bit nonsensicle.  Thankfully you only need a small tweak here.  

As backstory, just say the entire group of Craigmaw Goblins captured Gundren, but there was  rebellion in the group.  

